Michael DeFelice
michael.defelice@gmail.com

Summary:
	"Michael is off-the-charts technical, and does an excellent job asserting his viewpoint across the organization ... [he] is an innovator and stubbornly pushes for change despite internal lethargy and resistance ... [he] is a good peer. People like to work with him and frequently loop him into their activities. He is eager to help out, curious and focused on delivering results, so he adds value wherever he goes." - Klee Kleber as SVP, Rackspace

Technical Skills:
	Data science in Python:
		Primarily using the numpy, pandas, scikit-learn, xgboost, and keras packages; Google BigQuery; Apache Spark
	Product incubation on Google Cloud:
		Primarily using its Kubernetes, App Engine, Datastore, Pub/Sub, and Cloud Functions services to deploy web apps and APIs; expertise also with Flask, Django REST Framework, Vue.js, modern JavaScript, Hugo, HTML, Bulma, Bootstrap

Work Experience:

Jan 2018 - Present
CyberFortress

As Co-Founder & CTO, I am responsible for R&D, scaling, and technical operations for an insurtech startup focused on building a new kind of cyber insurance policy for ecommerce businesses.

Key contributions include:
* Building an ML-based underwriting model that determined a company's risk of downtime in seconds from just an email address
* Developed a method for continuous, internet-scale data collection across hundreds of thousands of ecommerce domains
* Worked with our Product Lead & UX developer to launch a downtime risk score offering
* Completed a $3.2M seed round co-led by Greycroft & Live Oak Venture Partners

May 2016 - Aug 2019
Jungle Disk

As Principal Data Scientist I worked closely with the CEO on strategic growth opportunities.

Key contributions included:
* Modeling & managing price changes that significantly contributed to revenue growth in a shrinking market
* Performed financials analysis, modeling, and forecasting. Explored customer growth behaviors & digital marketing performance over time (incl. per-channel LTV)
* Wrote & automated the delivery of custom reports that continuously present the business's KPIs
* Developed IP; filed patents on key initiatives & areas of development; performed technical due diligence for strategic acquisitions
* Built & integrated our digital marketing, lead gen, and sales operations platforms

Apr 2013 - Apr 2017
GoodTokens

As the Technical Co-Founder, I developed the product strategy & built the backend services for an HR & culture management platform.

Jun 2010 - May 2016
Rackspace

As a Principal Architect, I was responsible for the diligence & build of incubation projects; prior to this, I worked in Corporate Development performing technical due diligence on M&A, investments, partnerships, and post-merger integrations. As Chief Infrastructure Services Architect, I led architecture for the Managed Storage, Backup, and Virtualization product lines.

Key contributions included:
* Incubated the Google Apps for Work at Rackspace preview offering. Determined its market & product requirements. Designed & developed the systems for customer account provisioning, metering, billing, and integration into Google's reseller services
* Incubated the Microsoft Private Cloud & Office 365 offerings
Supported the ZeroVM, Exceptional Cloud Services, and Object Rocket acquisitions & integrations
* Built a team to create & vet the technical designs that comprised the Rackspace Managed Storage & Data Protection product offerings - working closely with & across the Product, Support, and Infrastructure Operations teams to evolve our enterprise solutions portfolio

Feb 2006 - Jun 2010
Tesoro

As an Enterprise Architect, I was responsible for the design of the company's data center storage, server, virtualization, and backup technologies in an environment keen on continuous availability and minimizing costs; prior to this as a Systems Engineer, for the technical operations of these systems.

Oct 2004 - Feb 2006
Strategic Business Systems

As a consultant, I represented Dell - delivering highly-available storage & server solutions to enterprise clients across the country.

Patents:
	US20190327259A1: Vulnerability Profiling Based on Time Series Analysis of Data Streams
	US20190236148A1: Generative Text Using a Personality Model
	US20190236139A1: Natural Language Generation Using Pinned Text and Multiple Discriminators

Education:
	1999 - 2003: Ursinus College; BS Computer Science

Volunteer Experience:
	May 2017 - Present: Mentor at RealCo
	Feb 2017 - Present: Volunteer with Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America
	Jun 2016 - Present: Volunteer as a music teacher; teach music theory, guitar, and ukulele to children & adults

